so I was really excited to give this
talk because like you I'm out in the
world seeing lots of unusual or
technology examples and it was really
fun to put it all in one place and so
the first part of my talk I'm going to
give you a survey of what I think is the
coolest out there and then I'm
going to talk to you about my own a
sperm kind of my background and
experiments in our technology so I'm
really looking at the edges of
storytelling and I wanted to give how
many of you familiar with this book art
and physics okay so this is my father so
I kind of grew up if you don't know it
was written in the 80s and seminal book
here's one of the first people just talk
about the connections between art and
science these were my bedtime stories
and he believed that artists and
scientists we're talking about the same
ideas to different languages one through
images and went through equations and
goes all throughout civilization showing
artists as revolutionary artisan
revolutionary scientists have their
matching ideas I can't recommend the
book enough I'm totally biased but it's
actually the way at my husband who is an
artist and scientist went to hear my dad
speak and the calm of that night so
artists science as the subject is truly
in my DNA I also thought just in the
little context this was the geodesic
dome built behind my house so the
full of references in the
program and my family was very
buckminster fuller's ideas and it was
like instead of a farm raising it was a
geodesic dome raising and in the first
concert I was out taking 2 miss Lori
Anderson and one of my favorite quotes
from my dad was if you're not living on
the edge you're taking up too much space
and then his last book he actually
passed away but his last book was on da
Vinci who and my brother system i just
got it out there and he believed didn't
she was the future our species because
he has such a developed right in left
hemisphere and developed art and science
so i have been immersed in soaked in
these ideas my whole life so to kind of
show you what i think the best example I
was very exciting so I feel like um as
for the guys putting my antennas out
there just is actually the way I feel in
life is I'm always kind of trying to see
what's next or what what people are
where we're headed and what people are
wanting to talk about in a lot of my
work that's
when I was thinking a lot about
storytelling as a subject matter and I
was thinking well I mean obviously we
know where storytelling species and what
is that about and you know it's for
entertainment it's for education it's
for cultural preservation and it's
really about instilling mortals a lot of
the stories that we tell that's what the
purposes of storytelling for our species
is and then I was thinking when I was
looking at all these edges of
storytelling what are they saying about
how we need to evolve that usually that
new form whether it was a good word
press or new forms of storytelling are
very illuminating to where we as a
species need to go or something we're
needing or how we need to evolve forward
so the different kinds of storytelling
that I didn't explore isn't film or
writing painting and theater and I'll
say it was I didn't I was taking news
West Virginia's and religion but I have
left that out this time but I would
start with um I'm a filmmaker and I was
you know always interested in film
history in the way that advances in
technology changed the way we made films
with Emma changed reality so before we
can move the camera was a big moment it
was very much like theater and then
suddenly we were able to start moving
the camera which changed things inside
and as a document
that's huge when we can move the camera
now the cameras doing so small GoPros
and how much that's influencing the way
that we can make movies another huge
movement for independent I thought I
left home show it Sundance and my
friends and I everyone's moving into
what we will call the 10 hour movie
which is original series if you don't
think of it that way but normally making
a film that's a 80 minutes and that's
the arc and right now it's just a golden
age of 10 our movies because you can
think of all these series that's the way
you think of the arc and you can get
super nuance in the story time and all
the independent filmmakers are moving
into that space so it's a really
interesting time for just story arc and
you know transparent a fantastic example
of that at a really exciting area how do
you know the artist Chris milk and of
course this was an early he said he did
where you know you type in your zip code
and music videos los Cena's but i love
this example minute pulls from YouTube's
a very nostalgic song and it pulled you
type in your zip code for those behind
seen it and in a whole video of where
you the neighborhood that you grew up at
that will play while you're less
very nostalgic song so really specific
to you one of my other favorite pieces
by Chris mode which they showed it
Sundance again this year is the
treachery of sanctuary we've seen this
piece yeah it's so beautiful it's about
creativity and it's very much influenced
by the movement of people there's like a
triptych of three screens and one of the
motions make is to convey inspiration
and your whole body turns into the birds
and then the second triptych is about
when you're the critic and the birds are
like eating you and leaving your ideas
and then the third trip dick you go like
this in front of it and you will soon
start to fly on your idea really forms
as such a beautiful example of how the
body is influencing the screen screaming
film there's a lot of great examples of
the are happening today for documentary
and this is a great example of this was
at the art piece where some people are
waiting in for a food bank line and
somebody falls down and collapses and if
you're in the VR goggles how much
empathy you feel and people feel
experiencing this and this was another
piece of anemia in a sunday asset to
actually feel that it's like to cross an
abortion line and it's called crossing
the line
it's incredibly powerful piece so the
visceral nature that we are can add to
documentary she also did great piece on
Syrian refugees and what it would really
feel like to have bombs go off and taken
so that that's a really interesting
space right now is document or ADR and
of course you know there are times
putting those very cheap versions and
the subscription is going to be you're
going to see such an explosion of that
and i put this example in because how do
you experience soaring over California
and Disneyland I actually fits so it
will blow your mind I as a filmmaker you
your Indies you're in these seeds and
they filmed it completely surrounding
you and they lift up the chairlift
that's what it really feels like a
chairlift and you start soaring over
California goat in an orchard field and
the smell of orange orchard grove and
then the house smells of oranges and
then you fly to Yosemite and I mean I
the first time at now is caught by doing
a diversion of it called soaring over
the world but I would just go to
Disneyland for this ride because it was
so powerful in the immersive nature of
the experience as a filmmaker I the
potential of kind of 360 film
surrounding people okay so the next area
I'm going to go into is painting from
the original paintings
let's go there's a really exciting
software can and I on the advisory board
of this company called fuse and so
basically it used to be very expensive
to create 3d maps of spaces and you
would need teams of animators and a lot
of money and now there's a lot of new
technologies that are you can do a 360
around a space and I'm actually going to
show that again so you can change the
charge us with your iPhone and then even
create a 3d map of the space that you
could then create a world in so this is
gonna revolutionize animation because
it's basically democratizing it so even
as a filmmaker I have a small film
studio in San Francisco and I've got
animators that live in other places but
to the money would cost me to recreate
spaces just exhorbitant my confidence
this is going to really change who's
able to create these 3d animated spaces
anywhere and it's all through your
iphone I another example of painting my
husband Ken Goldberg is
fessor at UC Berkeley of robotics and
he's also this part installations and he
he's done this piece that's really
evolved over the years so he took the
life-size me feed from Berkeley this
feat of the earth and he attached it to
paint and nothing colors and images and
this piece is called blue and he this is
actually this is a video example of him
shine the Earth's movements and he's
also worked with sound artists to attach
sounds to the movement of the earth so
one version of an installation you had
surround sound of the Earth's movement
as well as a visual when he he worked
with a San Francisco Ballet and Heather
that's cool dancer dancing live through
the sound of the Earth's movement
there's a lot of you know that you know
and that was such a collaboration
between us I geology lab at UC Berkeley
and artists of course the bay lights
that's a new kind of painting painting
averages with light a beautiful example
of our technology and then moving over
to performance survival research science
having been the original and
uh they have a she had a show happening
on sunday night secret show and i'm sure
you can find out about if your interest
how do i get into srl show great and
this one how do you have been to Sleep
No More in New York great if you haven't
your next trip to New York you must go
to the show and what they've done is
turned inside out the whole notion of
audiences performer so they have a whole
building and there they have
reinterpreted Macbeth and the actors are
like performing / room and you're
wearing a mask and the actors it's this
is a very kind of unusual and kind of
sexy experience because everyone's
wearing masks and the actors are right
like inches from you performing these
incredible scenes and you as an audience
member can wander into whatever we're no
one will experience the same experience
the same way but there's there's a lot
of really interesting interactive
performance is happening
right now so Sleep No More is definitely
on my list of one of the most exciting
things I've seen in the last decade now
this one how many be a part of hopscotch
the mobile opera ok this one I did not
experience because I couldn't get down
to LA but I wanted to so badly so it's
basically a local opera for twenty four
parts so you get picked up by
motorcycles limos buildings in the Opera
takes place as you're moving to Los
Angeles
sounds really good
so that's tough hopscotch this one I
actually saw this performance there's an
amazing conference in New York called
the future of storytelling they don't
got of that I highly recommend it if
you're interested in this stuff and I
saw dandy Punk perform there and he does
um amazing performances with light so I
tried to describe a couple images that
he's on stage and he's using animation
and light projection in the most magical
way it's like I've never really seen
anything like it I couldn't grab a video
but the ND punk if you can check him out
I highly recommend it it's very unusual
it reminds me of me while how many of
you have seen you up before oh oh oh so
you should have a come here she's
amazing she doesn't leak she's in a
group in la called cloud control and as
an art collective she's an amazing
animator and what she does is so these
images she's actually she's got screens
on stage and she goes behind the screens
and her shadow is projected and she's
created all these animations so she's
moving in his movie
with the animations that she's created
so looks like she's activated now
there's a great TED talk if you wanted
to see she's a while ago she did a TED
talk but she's got someone who performed
so she was in public magazine recently
this last month but she is so magical
and actually punk daddy not contain
dandy punk and Miwa I would call in the
same kind of genre of art and technology
on the stage that is mind-blowing and
then pop up mags me because I mean you
didn't pop up magazine it's I love this
kind of movement as much as there's all
these new technologies but there's a big
movement on going back to the core they
don't allow any cell phones or recording
in the space and they'd be a major
magazine brought a magazine to life and
they have performers but not only
performer storytellers and video and
it's a really beautiful experience they
had it at davies symphony hall but i
would highly recommend subscribing the
tickets sell out in my 20 minutes if you
want to go and you get on an email you
have to buy ticket in 20 min so a
sellout but i just thought i'd show
Oakland last week it's fantastic and the
next kind of area and move into is
writing this is I found this bag from
2013 but there every five days of Billy
many stories are generated then I meet
my tiny stores how many are on Twitter
here I love Twitter i love the
constraint of twitter i think it's
brilliant and i follow and actually I'm
going to tell you just a couple of
samples but afterwards if anyone want to
share with me examples of storytelling
on Twitter and I think people like
literally telling stories through their
tweets I would love to know more
examples this is one of my favorites
this is someone who takes the first line
of film scripts that have women and just
gives you the first line and it's always
and how vacuous I usually is but he's
constantly kind of mining stories and
tiny them this was called very short
story where you throw it out on and
people turn it into a story and then
this one is perhaps my favorite and it's
God tweeting and it's hilarious and and
this was one of my favorites I know for
a fact that I don't exist now I was for
research in stock retreating quite a bit
of his tweets God straight Socrates this
male image and all of a sudden I got
Natalie what's if God just followed you
back which is about the best I've ever
received in my living and and then this
is an artist just to go back to the core
elements of writing she does live poetry
with an old-fashioned typewriter and I
that to ease our technology at its
finest also I love
technologies digital stories and she's
wonderful Jacqueline Susskind deliver up
she's pretty amazing live and in the
last area that I'm going to explore
before I gotta go into my experiment so
our technology is oral storytelling and
Janet Cardiff did any of you go to the
fort mason show she did she's amazing I
father worked for like 20 years and I
just find her work so evocative and then
I love this big trend back to podcasts
and I think it's fascinating that as we
have so many technologies right now that
there's a return to just the intimacy of
the snake to a podcast you listen to
podcasts and isn't there like there's an
intimacy there that I just I've never
felt in anything as I was like well it's
why isn't it like radio because I was
thinking a radio is intimate but I think
what it is is that with the podcast it's
so mobile it can go with you so radio is
so kind of bound to a radio and i think
the intimacy is just that you can take
that conversation wherever you want to
go and i right i love that there's this
big revival in this very intimate oral
storytelling so those are kind of what i
think are the most exciting examples of
our technology so
if you have more to tell me I would love
to hear them afterwards but for me this
is stuff I've seen that it really feels
like it's pointing to something deeper
about cultures and I really started
thinking well what are all these
examples that I just gave what are they
pointing to so I all those edges of
storytelling what are they telling me
about our culture and our society and
what we're needing and what I really
can't use a lot of these new forms of
storytelling work there was a lot of
intimacy and then whether it was the
Sleep No More or the podcast there was a
lot more apathy I think like as we're
becoming so screen and tech driven that
creating empathy is even more and
actually just because we're using the
word technology so much I thought it
would be good for you to understand the
way i think about technology it is us
you know it's the Marshall McLuhan you
know it is just an extension of us it's
not this other thing like Earth and
technology like we're human we make art
and technologies like the extension of
our fingers and our minds and an
amplification of all these things so
that's very much my framing so it is
just a tool a new to bending pencil for
us and but i think these new forms of
storytelling i was showing really to me
they show empathy they're showing we
need multiple perspectives on things we
want to feel connected and also there's
so many new ways to tell stories i think
we need to be really adaptable that's
also
examples were tiny and all of them were
pointing to this need to feel alive and
each of those examples when I'm
experiencing those examples I feel so
alive and I think we're all so busy and
multitasking and zooming through this
world that anything that can make you
stop and say you know you're human you
have a motion you're alive as incredibly
powerful and I feel like that's what
we're craving as a culture as we are so
distracted okay so that that was my
survey of what I love most exciting
story telling i'm going to give you kind
of more of where i'm coming from on all
this I kind of mentioned my upbringing
and storytelling and art and science
really in my DNA these were the stories
I grew up with I grew up in the golden
era of sand I'm out of the 70s these
were my favorite movies I went to the
movies ever it was like my church I have
Jewish it was my temple but every Sunday
we went to the movies and it then went
out to dinner ice cream and we would
dissect the movie it was the way he
talks about everything was through these
films I was given a Macintosh in 1984
and that rocked my world it was a my
parents I just got divorced
not very as a teenager and I was pretty
good you know an unhappy teenager I know
that's very unusual but hated high
school I can wait to just escape from it
at all of moments and I wasn't really
happy being at my house furniture at
very so that computer was like my
conduit to the outside world because I
have to remind you this was nineteen
eighty-four this was pre wet and I was
so hard to imagine today but I like this
graphic because this can remind everyone
what 1984 felt like that was what it
looked like before the web and but I was
a computer nerd and the space called
back in an hour everyone just doesn't
affect that it was men usually need to
have an apple to he and i had a magnum
to code and and i had a modem does
everyone remember that wonderful sound
Shh of the 80s I had that modem I had my
mac and I would connect that modem to
another library to to allow her to
another library and I my best friend in
high school my family was from Odessa
Russia is an enemy country her family
was from Iran and we wrote this program
called unity toss which stood for
uniting nations and telecommunications
and software and the whole concept was
our families were both of these enemy
countries and we would write a program
that would connect students all over the
world in the eighties and from that
program I was invited to the Soviet
Union as a student ambassador to talk
about the power of technology and no one
had personal computers over there I
didn't know what I was talk about and
that's kind of my first bubble burst you
know trying to use technology to change
the world then I went to UC Berkeley and
I studied film history so I had one of
these great professors who had this
infectious excitement her name is
Marilyn fade and how she talked about
how advances of tech in technology
falmouth change the way we recorded
reality and thus change reality so I
love thinking about his
gee with film and one be a film director
there was no film production at UC
Berkeley so the way that I need movies
my first felt and I'm so grateful to
this now if I had gone UCLA which was
the film school I would make very normal
looking movies but out of constraints as
often happens I would make old I would
take old movies from those foam rails or
slug they call it and I re-edit them in
to do movies so if you look at my films
a lot of them or blood was it a very
cool up in a collage skylight take old
movies original animations I should some
new stuff it is very much because out of
necessity I I was um just happy to make
films out of what already existed and
now of course I'm like a kid McCain
stories i used to have to go to old film
enthusiasts closets and get their old
films and cut it and now i'm on the
internet and access to absolutely
everything and so that's really if it is
huge change from you as a filmmaker from
like cutting and slicing to actually
using the web to make dogs so i tried to
make a movie right out of college Spike
Lee had just done it and on credit cards
and three jobs at one
and I started a film studio flicker
fusion films which is the actual physics
of Lyceum moving image and totally am at
my responsibilities brain and it was all
about a sculptor on it took place inside
of his mind and I promptly got very dead
and felt like it's a little looser and
sleeping a lot of friends couches and
the way I you know my two loves film and
technology so I got a job working I do
they even remember cd-roms I started
working in interactive filmmaking and
cd-roms and I thought okay this I could
get out of debt I'll use my love of
computers and film and tell interactive
stories and I worked on the cd-rom on
staying the musician sting and I was
working on that CD ROM in Seattle and
someone said to me so it's 1994 so easy
to me you have to see this thing called
the web there's these people who were
all talking about how much they love
Steve's music on a thing called website
and I saw that and I was like oh my gosh
that was like that thing I wrote about
in high school it now exists and I
wanted to tell everyone about this thing
called the web I couldn't shut up about
it and I was obsessed and thought I was
going to change the world and I shortly
thereafter founded the Webby Awards I
worked first what they called the web
magazine but there anyway extension
systems that have been here a long time
this is the 90s I was in my 20s I
respect for you just at just building
something the last 13 years I just know
the sweat it takes and passion and love
but I started to wear these at the first
weddings were at demos oh my god wait
forgot he was in there wait a second it
is actually I'd never in it and it is
running the webbings and this is the
google had just come into existence it
just hit it right like basically if you
were involved in the web in early days
it was like you were at the center of
the world San Francisco not a lot of
people understood what the web was that
they knew or believed it was going to
change everything and Andy's five-word
acceptance speech rule and you know
mayor Giuliani from New York try to
bring it to New York and we kept it here
in this is this crazy time where I got
to honor the best of the web is very
early stage and say this is each year
like this is what excellence is now push
against it so it was just an amazing
experience to be in San Francisco
running the web knees in that period
we're just about to have our 20-year
history so I have been very
that's me very early wear these and we I
do these big performances with a lot of
our technology this is that the sonic
got three and we bring in a lot of
artists I would make all these films for
that circular screen there and that's
project mandala guess nothing dancers
and and then I wanted to go back to
filmmaking full times I sold it um I'm
still I might've run a day later a solo
partner and this was the image that I
found yesterday we gave him a lifetime
machine no more excited so the webbing
Edwards has the spy board acceptance
speech rule and no one's ever gone over
it in 20 years and his speech is my
favorite speech usually people ask me
about the five or acceptance mutual i
always bring out princess because it's
so profound and some are silly and funny
and it becomes a second mini competition
at the weddings but his was um there
whatever you think is true and the way
he told it to me and it really helps me
when I meet people who have different
political beliefs than I did which and
because he was explaining how it's their
truth and it has helped me have a lot
more empathy when I'm in a conversation
with the Republican and I see that first
thought about regrets a choice that made
films
is I literally think that quote because
I try to think well they believe this is
true is there truth and I try to be more
reasonable in my reaction so as I'm so
sad yesterday I met such an amazing
artist any was such a pioneer with our
technology he was one of the first major
artists the reason why we gave a
lifetime achievement award it was one of
the first major artists to embrace
technology to have direct connections
with his hands anyways so sold the web
they start their film studio and made a
lot of films I made film about american
jewish identity told to the history of
the burger doll called the tribe i did a
lot of experiments with using this
social media to find people this obscure
dog became number one film on itunes
just because you know i was into the
distribution is just as interesting to
me as making the film I made it feature
documentary called connected to say that
enough time I don't show you the trailer
it's a feature and connected it was a
lot of ideas for my father and really
made last year his life and and that
I've found you know some theaters again
distribution is really interesting to me
as an artist we did all the traditional
theaters PBS all that stuff and when I
bring that up because a lot of my
experiments
our technology today are playing with
that model I love it a lot of my films
as the moveable feast I don't think of
myself as a filmmaker but a conversation
maker because I think a lot of
discussion materials for all my films
and i will use the tactility of
discussion tools are all handmade I want
the film to elicit emotions and then I
want to give you all these tools to
delve deeper into the conversation so
I'm super into making these like books
and conversation birds and all that so
after I made connected I thought
connected looks at the history of
connectedness for the beginning
civilization to today and well you know
it was very exciting at the beginning of
the webbings when there was about 16
million people online it's infinitely
more exciting right now there's two
point seven billion people online and I
think we're like five years away from
being completely connected on this
planet and what will the potential be
when you have that many people connected
online sharing different perspectives so
the last line of the film is of the
future brackets for centuries we've
declared independence perhaps it's time
to find a forever interdependence so
when I finish that film I thought I want
to try to make a film about people with
cell phones like what can I do
creatively as an art form that will I
want to make a collaborative phone so we
rewrote we wrote a declaration of
interdependence we posted it on the web
and we said if these lines inspire
anything 20 when we read it on your cell
phone or and create artwork for us so we
didn't know what we were going to get
we've got artwork from around the world
and I don't have enough time to show you
about my first pot it's
smoby to the music is really powerful I
wish a just the first couple minutes
because um I'm just sensitive of time
that this was the first club
but in the course of human events then a
full devotion to the course of human
events yeah I it's a four minute film if
you guys can watch the whole thing it it
was so powerful for me as a homemaker to
make a film people from all over the
world must I will never meet and make
this collaborative project now it's
collaborative but we put a really strong
script most of the cloud from the column
cloud filmmaking I don't like the term
crowdsource I like odd source its work
both in and evocative to me but we've
now made it seven if these cloud comes
I'm going to kind of okay to me there's
something as I thought maybe that's so
visceral about people filming themselves
without a crew there there's so much
more brawn and I think the feature on
self up and you can film yourself that's
probably one of the most exciting things
for me that people can just film
themselves in a journal style and send
it to me we then
phone called engaged we asked about the
world with their hand on my heart feel
her heartbeat and think about what that
mad that was our next one filmmaking we
wrote a club filmmaking manifesto that
are all the tenants of what we consider
club filmmaking with art technology I
did yday glass films about neuroscience
it did one on brain development and and
then and I work with the State
Department so they've gotten a lot of
their embassies involved do puffle
making with me so we'll do workshops
Lebanon and Israel and South Africa
where they will engage their embassy to
work on these platforms with us so we
were making a cloud film all that
character development the neuroscience
and psychology of who you are and this
is a graphic from the film and we
thought that's do a global cloud film
premiere like I premiered my films and
all these other ways Peter's online
whatever what if we give this away for
free and have people all of the world
have their own screenings and what would
that look like so for the science of
Carol you're going to call it character
to exist films all about character
education and and we did a global google
hangout to unify all this training
starts tonight 250 the first year we had
1500 screams these are people this is my
mom tuning in those of you that want to
experience what it's like to be part of
a cloud phone from the other words they
do a cold water called I ask the
community questions and they
answer my facebook page and twitter is
usually how i do i call for entries or
through my newsletter and then i have a
series called the future starts here
these are 85 minute episodes each season
about a lot of stuff about art
technology and robots and creativity is
usually subjects I explore show you that
and it's raising it so the last
character day which is last fall we did
our second global cloud film premiere we
premiered to new films and we had 6700
events in 41 countries so the potential
is a filmmaker that I can make a film in
San Francisco it's funded through grants
so I give it away for free it was a
different business model for me than
having investors and saying you guys
have your own event I'm going to provide
everything you need haven't really hold
that poster film discussion materials
for free and you have your one event
that happened last fall in 41 countries
we had people tap in from 121 countries
did that make you mention these are the
discussion materials you know I love
that part so we set 3000m for free and
the whole concept is for one day you
look at character from all these
different perspectives so if any of you
are interested there's hope here today
for this year's September 22nd and I now
want to show you one of the film to
close my talk with my most recent cloud
come so you'll see the parts that I a
cloud sourced and this is a 10-minute
film
what's great example of a 21st century
very like a sliver of dishes our
question prompted all these responses
about amazing technological
breakthroughs and innovations and then
we heard one story that opened door to a
new way of thinking it's about an art
professor in Los Angeles named Mary Beth
who is watching the news around the
Ebola crisis in West Africa I thought
wait a second these patients must be so
scared and lonely in the only humans
they're saying are covered in these huge
imposing students in every report that I
heard of Ebola epidemic they mentioned
the frightening students I imagined what
would it be like a deity and not being
paid for bae gyeongmin I found myself
almost a doubt out why they might be a
good photo and finally I thought maybe
on one cuz that you do that and we were
so moved because the way Mary best story
unfolds shines a light on a larger ship
or singing the world us technologies are
rapidly changing how we do everything
certain skills are becoming less
valuable they need to memorize perform
routine tasks and soon even they need to
drive while others are becoming more
valuable so what exactly are the skills
that the Paris for a world that's
constantly genius
of course there's a lot of conversation
around this question what should we be
focusing on in school and in life
there's the importance of science
technology engineering and math I like
to throw in art and humanities so not
stem not steam but Steve and there's
also amazing new evidence based research
proving that there's another set of
skills we need that aren't in textbooks
yet so as we learn more about Mary Beth
story and delve deep into how connected
to all the different schools of thought
the hard skills the soft skills the life
skills the confident the non-cognitive
we found five skills strange qualities
whatever you want to call them in yes
it's another list but seem to be at the
core of thriving in today's world so if
you want to know what they are or how
Mary Beth story relates to any of them
you're already practicing the first one
curiosity good news
puncturing my consciousness I started
being more extensively the West African
culture about filoviruses I mentally
just started problem-solving in our 24-7
the world where we're inundated with
information from all directions three
billion Google searches a day three
hundred thousand tweets every minute
curiosity is the difference between
skinning surface of all those links and
truly engaging and not just looking for
what's already out there but also for
ideas that aren't already out of them
new research from UC Davis shows that
when our curiosity is piqued the brain
activates regions associated with
learning memory and even reward it
basically turns our minds into very
happy sponges and while there's a lot of
fear out there that technologies are
replacing what we do our curiosity is
one of the things that makes humans
unique for machines but not from animals
machines follow rules very well follow a
designated halfway
but our minds are built to constantly
adapt to ask questions that create
unexpected conway's pathways that lead
to even more curiosity
and those questions you asked and
pathways you open also lead to
creativity our second step and my
immediate response was to look around me
t what was available and repurpose it
for that use we often think about
creativity is far harder but it's
important in absolutely every contest
taking different research and finding
connections a new synthesis a new idea
Harvard psychologist howrah Gardner says
creativity is liberating human energy
and in today's world creativity is so
key because you have so much information
at your fingertips that getting that
information is not the biggest challenge
in fact more and more the world is going
to expect that you're curious enough to
do that it's how you bring your own
unique perspective to connect ideas in
new ways that's going to differentiate
research that shows that some of your
most creative thoughts happen when your
mind is left to laundry when you
daydream exercise even when you're doing
the dishes but no matter how many
creative ideas to pass
you have to do something which brings us
to the third skill we need in today's
world taking initiative I proved scores
of letters to anybody that I can think
of many responded positively if I posts
responded positively but getting someone
to come in to partner was the most
difficult part if you don't take
initiative your ideas will float into a
sea of billions of thoughts being
generated around you every day and in
order to begin and get something done we
use an incredible amount of things like
intuition judgment deserting which ideas
to act on knowing when to shift
directions or approach taking initiative
also means knowing when to reach
actually what would an artist think
about your idea what about a scientist
what about somebody from another country
which is really about multidisciplinary
think
I reached out to epidemiologists doctors
hotels NGOs even anthropologists asking
what do you think of this idea how could
I improve it there's so much talk today
about how we're distracted by
multitasking but what we really need to
be doing more on is multitasking across
ages races genders cultures and
disciplines we think of the mind is
private and there's so much value in
solo thinking but there are also so many
ways that the mind is public is communal
organ to communicate to transfer ideas
into collaborate in collaborating just
like everything else about being human
can be messy it takes understanding what
you know and what you don't know so the
next time that you're collaborating how
do you make sure that your mind is
really open to being changed it really
comes down to envy I imagined what it
would be like to be a patient to be
taken away from your family taken away
by somebody wearing this frightening
soup and then there's a view from the
healthcare workers side you have your
human tool to have
except your care gone MIT researcher
Rebecca Saxe suggest that this skill of
sensing the motives and feelings of
others really begins developing around
age of five and has the potential to
grow stronger throughout life but just
like the rest of these skills empathy
takes practice looking people in the eye
truly trying to understand where they're
coming from taking the time to know the
names and stories of people you interact
with failure and it seems as our world
has become more and more connected we
have to remember
unless we connect deeply in fact a three
decades long study of college students
has found that empathy levels in our
culture have dropped dramatically it's
clearly time to refocus empathy is at
the core of our ability to communicate
to work together to be part of our
rapidly changing world which is where
you come in for most of human history we
survived by creating an agricultural
economy 200 years ago we shifted to an
industrial economy just 50 years ago we
initiated the knowledge economy and
today we're approaching another seismic
shift some people are calling the human
economy so here we talk to scientists
friends researchers Mary Beth and here's
the part that we found most fascinating
and hopeful the skills we need grows in
today's world in any profession oil down
to being human basically the qualities
that machines don't have
eventually through hundreds of
connections obstacles and ray threes
Mary Beth was introduced to a doctor
Liberia who later her official
invitation to begin work in their own
clinics location so busy on our local
food too
these skills have been the engine of
innovation and surviving since the
beginning of civilization but we've
arrived at a time when your human skills
are just as important as your knowledge
so what can you offer who's ready
so thank you that was a gar seventh
cloud film there's a whole bunch of
other short platforms if you want to
check out and thank you